50499: Using CNAME Records with Private Registries (#407)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/vendor/packaging-private-registry-cname.md

          "txt_record": {
              "name": "_cf-custom-hostname.registry.enterprise.myapp.com",
              "value": "00b3b205-3bce-41fa-abfb-7852b438be80"
          },
          "tls_verification_type": "txt",
          "tls_verification_status": "initializing",
          "tls_txt_record": {
              "name": "",
              "value": ""
          }
      },
      "proxy": null
  }
  ```

  There is a 2-step verification process. This response shows `is_active: false`, meaning that the CNAME is not set up yet and that the `domain_verification_status` is pending.

1. Create the domain TXT record for the application using your DNS provider's instructions, and set the value to the randomly generated value shown in the previous step.

  **Example Input:**

  ```
  "name": "_cf-custom-hostname.registry.enterprise.myapp.com",
  "value": "00b3b205-3bce-41fa-abfb-7852b438be80"
  ```

1. To see the updated status, refresh the Replicated API by listing the values again:

  ```
  curl –-header "Authorization: USER_TOKEN" https://api.replicated.com/vendor/v3/app/APP_ID/registry/cnames
  ```

  **Example Response:**

  ```
  {
      "registry": {

>           "hostname": "registry.enterprise.ttl.sh",

Reviewer: Looks like this changed from what was used above.
```suggestion
          "hostname": "registry.enterprise.myapp.com",
```

Author: Not sure what happened there, but thanks for catching it.

          "is_active": false,
          "verification_type": "",
          "domain_verification_status": "active",
          "txt_record": {
              "name": "",
              "value": ""
          },
          "tls_verification_type": "txt",
          "tls_verification_status": "pending_validation",
          "tls_txt_record": {

>               "name": "registry.enterprise.myapp.com",

Reviewer: This part is probably going to change. Marc and I discovered what might be a bug, so this value might change. Nothing to do for now, but just FYI that's why merging this is on hold.

Author: Acknowledged.

Reviewer: Marc has a fix for this. Since no one is using this yet, and it works in many cases, I'm going to merge this and we can change it once Marc's fix is released.

- The endpoints do not support CNAMEs for replicated.app (release manifests), api.replicated.com (platform market API), the download portal, or other services.

## Configure a Custom Domain Name in the Vendor Portal

You can configure custom domain names for the Replicated private registry and the proxy service in the vendor portal.

To configure a custom domain name:

1. Log in to the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), and click **Images**.
1. In the Custom Registry Domain Name pane, on either the registry.replicated.com or proxy.replicated.com tab, select **Use a custom domain name instead of ENDPOINT_NAME**.
1. Enter the custom domain name in the textbox, and click **Save**.
1. From Create CNAME record, copy the text string and create the CNAME record in your DNS account. Click **Continue**.
1. From Domain name ownership verification, copy the text string and create a TXT record in your DNS account. Click **Verify and continue**.
1. From TLS cert creation verification, copy the text string and create a TXT record in your DNS account. Click **Verify and finish**.

  Your changes can take up to 24 hours to propagate.

> ## Add a Custom Domain Name with the Vendor API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure a Custom Domain Name with the Vendor API
```

This procedure shows how to:

- Configure a CNAME record to point registry.enterprise.myapp.com to registry.replicated.com

> - Replace registry.replicated.com in your application with registry.enterprise.myapp.com

Reviewer: I don't see where this is actually happening. It looks like this procedure shows how to create a CNAME record, validate domain ownership, and validate TLS certificate creation.

Also, this section is basically the same as the above section, but this uses the API instead of the vendor portal. Feels like these two should better mirror each other. For example, we don't start off the above section with, "This procedure shows how to."

Author: @ajp-io Ok, good point, I made those changes. The API is an actual example in some places, so I added those clarifications as well. Let's see if the changes look ok to you - I added "Example Response" and "Example Input" where applicable.

# Using CNAME Records with Private Registries (Alpha)

You can use Canonical Name (CNAME) records to create custom hostnames for the replicated.registry.com and proxy.replicated.com endpoints.

Whether you use the Replicated private registry or the proxy service for your own private registry, these Replicated domains are external to your domain and require additional security reviews by your customer. Using custom CNAMEs can bring the Replicated registry and proxy registry inside an existing security review and reduce your exposure.

You add custom CNAMEs for the Replicated private registry and proxy service in the Replicated vendor portal or with the vendor API.

## About Verification

Verification of the domain is required using a TXT record that undergoes separate verification checks for:

- Domain ownership - This verification is done when you initially add a record.
- TLS certificate creation - Each new domain must have a new TLS certificate to be verified.

> ## About Hostname Mapping

Reviewer: We're trying to use "domain" and "domain name" consistently in the vendor portal, so I'm trying to not use hostname.
```suggestion
## About Domain Name Mapping
```

> ## About Domain Name Mapping

Reviewer 2: For consideration: It looks like line 18 ("The same hostname can be used for multiple applications, but cannot be used for multiple endpoints. A single hostname can... ") could be condensed into the Limitations section. 

There is already a bullet point in Limitations that says "A single CNAME record cannot be used for both the registry and proxy endpoints." It looks like this paragraph in line 18 elaborates on this limitation, so this could be opportunity to just have this info in one place (Limitations) rather than two.

> The same hostname can be used for multiple applications, but cannot be used for multiple endpoints. A single hostname can map to registry.replicated.com for any number of applications, but cannot map to both registry.replicated.com and  proxy.replicated.com, even if the applications are different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same domain name can be used for multiple applications, but cannot be used for multiple endpoints. A single domain name can map to registry.replicated.com for any number of applications, but cannot map to both registry.replicated.com and  proxy.replicated.com, even if the applications are different.
```

> If you configure a second application to use an existing, configured hostname, the configured hostname is automatically validated if the verified application belongs to the same team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you configure a second application to use an existing, configured domain name, the configured hostname is automatically validated if the verified application belongs to the same team.
```

## Limitations

> CNAME enablement currently has the following limitations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring a custom domain name currently has the following limitations:
```

Author: Didn't see this earlier, but it won't let me commit the suggestion. I added it manually. Leaving out the word "currently" bc it's considered unnecessary in tech writing.

- The kustomization in Replicated app manager always rewrites images to registry.replicated.com or proxy.replicated.com, and does not respect the CNAME. Only Helm installations that do not use the app manager respect the CNAME. This type of Helm installation is an alpha feature.
- The LicenseDockerCfg template function does not respect the CNAME.
- A single CNAME record cannot be used for both the registry and proxy endpoints.

> - The endpoints do not support CNAMEs for replicated.app (release manifests), api.replicated.com (platform market API), the download portal, or other services. For information about the API endpoints, see [Supported API Methods for CNAME](#supported-api-methods-for-cname).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You cannot create a CNAME record to alias replicated.app (release manifests), api.replicated.com (platform market API), the download portal, or other services. For information about the API endpoints, see [Supported API Methods for CNAME](#supported-api-methods-for-cname).
```

Author: I incorporated this but without using alias as a verb.

> ## Add a Custom CNAME in the Vendor Portal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure a Custom Domain Name in the Vendor Portal
```

> You can add custom CNAMEs for the Replicated private registry and the proxy service in the vendor portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure custom domain names for the Replicated private registry and the proxy service in the vendor portal.
```

> To add a custom CNAME:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a custom domain name:
```

1. Log in to the [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com), and click **Images**.

> 1. In the Custom Registry Domain Name pane, on either the registry.replicated.com or proxy.replicated.com tab, select **Use a custom hostname instead of ENDPOINT_NAME**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Custom Registry Domain Name pane, on either the registry.replicated.com or proxy.replicated.com tab, select **Use a custom domain name instead of ENDPOINT_NAME**.
```

> 1. Enter the custom CNAME in the textbox, and click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter the custom domain name in the textbox, and click **Save**.
```

> 1. From Create a CNAME record, copy the text string and create the CNAME record in your DNS account. Click **Continue**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From Create CNAME record, copy the text string and create the CNAME record in your DNS account. Click **Continue**.
```

1. From Domain name ownership verification, copy the text string and create a TXT record in your DNS account. Click **Verify and continue**.
1. From TLS cert creation verification, copy the text string and create a TXT record in your DNS account. Click **Verify and finish**.

  Your changes can take up to 24 hours to propagate.

> ## Supported API Methods for CNAME

Reviewer 2: A few suggestions on this section:
- ~~Supported~~ API Methods for CNAME (if the word "supported" is unnecessary)
- Recommend moving this section to the bottom under the "Add a Custom Domain Name with the Vendor API". This will allow the two procedures to be next to each other, and this reference material can be out of the way
- Higher level/for a separate story: Were you able to confirm with Marc that this is getting added to our Vendor API docs? If so, we might not want to include it here, and instead add the descriptive sentences that you wrote to the Vendor API Docs, where all of the API reference material lives. The API docs also already have a handy example API call generator with sample responses built-in.

  We avoid grouping reference material with procedural content in our other topics, and I think that's a good pattern to stick to since it can get a little noisy otherwise. This section could then be replaced with a link to the info in the API docs.
   
  **Moving this content to the API docs and replacing with a link should certainly be a separate story and doesn't need to happen as part of this one.

> CNAME supports the following GET and PUT methods and endpoints in the vendor API. For more information about the vendor API, see [Using the Vendor API v3](../reference/vendor-api-using).

Reviewer 2: vendor API --> Vendor API

```
{
  "registry.replicated.com": {
    "hostname": "registry.enterprise.vendor.com",
    "is_verified": true,
    "verification_type": "txt",
    "txt_record": {
      "name": "abcdef",
      "value": "txt_verification_abcdef"
    }
  },
  "proxy.replicated.com": null
}
```

### PUT /v3/app/:appId/registry/cname

This endpoint changes the CNAMEs for the application. It is a PUT request because all applications have these set, but they may be null. If the key is not provided, it will not be overwritten. Supported keys are `registry.replicated.com` and `proxy.replicated.com`.

Clear the configuration for a key by passing `null`.

**Example payload to set registry to a custom hostname using a TXT verification format:**

```
{
  "registry.replicated.com": {
    "hostname": "registry.enterprise.vendor.com",
    "verification_type": "txt",
  },
}
```

**Response:**

```
{
  "registry.replicated.com": {
    "hostname": "registry.enterprise.vendor.com",
    "is_verified": false,
    "verification_type": "txt",
    "txt_record": {
      "name": "abcdef",
      "value": "txt_verification_abcdef"
    }
  },
  "proxy.replicated.com": null
  }
  ```

> ## Add a Custom CNAME with the Vendor API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a Custom Domain Name with the Vendor API
```

> This procedure shows an example of:

Reviewer 2: This procedure shows an example of: --> shows how to:

(Looks like it uses the nice generic placeholders, so not an example, right?)

- Configuring a CNAME record to point registry.enterprise.myapp.com to registry.replicated.com
- Replacing registry.replicated.com in your application with registry.enterprise.myapp.com
- Using a TXT record to validate domain ownership

> To add a custom CNAMEs using the vendor API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a custom domain name using the vendor API:
```

1. Generate a user token. See [Generate a User API Token in Using the Vendor API v3](//reference/vendor-api-using#generate-a-user-api-token).

1. Retrieve your application ID:

  ```
  curl –-header "Authorization: USER_TOKEN" https://api.replicated.com/vendor/v3/apps
  ```

  Replace `USER_TOKEN` with your user API token.

  Your application ID is returned as a numeric string.

1. Review your current CNAME configuration:

  ```
  curl –-header "Authorization: USER_TOKEN" https://api.replicated.com/vendor/v3/app/APP_ID/registry/cnames
  ```

  Replace `APP_ID` with your application ID.

  If your CNAME configuration is not set up, the results show as `null`:

  ```
  {"registry":null,"proxy":null}
  ```

1. Customize the CNAME:

  ```
  curl --request PUT \
    --url https://registry.replicated.com/vendor/v3/app/APP_ID/registry/cname \
    --header 'Authorization: USER_TOKEN \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data '{"registry.replicated.com": { "hostname": "registry.enterprise.myapp.com", "verification_type": "txt" } }'
  ```

  :::note

>   If you get a 403 Forbidden error, the token could be read-only or the account does not have the feature toggle enabled.

Reviewer 2: does this refer to the feature toggle for using custom cnames?

Author: Checking - I think it means in the vendor admin account. Will clarify if possible.

Author: Its' their team account in the vendor portal. Made the changes.

# Using CNAME Records with Private Registries (Alpha)

You can use Canonical Name (CNAME) records to create custom hostnames for the replicated.registry.com and proxy.replicated.com endpoints.

Whether you use the Replicated private registry or the proxy service for your own private registry, these Replicated domains are external to your domain and require additional security reviews by your customer. Using custom CNAMEs can bring the Replicated registry and proxy registry inside an existing security review and reduce your exposure.

You add custom CNAMEs for the Replicated private registry and proxy service in the Replicated vendor portal or with the vendor API.

## About Verification

> Verification of the domain is required using either TXT records or email verification. Both methods (TXT and email) undergo two separate verification checks for:

Reviewer 3: We removed support for email verification and only support TXT

> # Using CNAME Records with Private Registries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Using CNAME Records with Private Registries (Alpha)
```

You add custom CNAMEs for the Replicated private registry and proxy service in the Replicated vendor portal or in the vendor API.

## About Verification

Verification of the domain is required using either TXT records or email verification. Both methods (TXT and email) undergo two separate verification checks for:

- Domain ownership - This verification is done when you initially add a record.
- TLS certificate creation - Each new domain must have a new TLS certificate to be verified.

Additionally, both verification checks must use the same method (TXT or email).

## About Hostname Mapping

The same hostname can be used for multiple applications, but cannot be used for multiple endpoints. A single hostname can map to registry.replicated.com for any number of applications, but cannot map to both registry.replicated.com and  proxy.replicated.com, even if the applications are different.

If you configure a second application using an existing, configured hostname, the configured hostname is automatically validated if the verified application belongs to the same team.

## Limitations

CNAME enablement currently has the following limitations:

> - The kustomization in KOTS always rewrites images to registry.replicated.com or proxy.replicated.com, and does not respect the CNAME. Only Helm installations respect the CNAME.

Author: Thanks for that info. I've clarified that line, but I think we'll want to add a cross-reference to that alpha feature topic when it gets documented.

- The LicenseDockerCfg template function does not respect the CNAME.

> - The CNAME feature does not support a single CNAME record for both the registry and proxy endpoints.

Reviewer: A nit, but this wording felt more similar to how the other bullets are worded.
```suggestion
- A single CNAME record cannot be used for both the registry and proxy endpoints.
```

- The APP/APP_ID/CNAME endpoint does not support CNAMEs for replicated.app (kots manifests), api.replicated.com (platform market API), the download portal, or other services.

> ## Customize CNAME in the Vendor Portal

Reviewer: Since you're not really customizing the CNAME but rather adding a custom CNAME
```suggestion
## Add a Custom CNAME in the Vendor Portal
```

> - The endpoints do not support CNAMEs for replicated.app (kots manifests), api.replicated.com (platform market API), the download portal, or other services. For information about the API endpoints, see [Supported API Methods for CNAME](#supported-api-methods-for-cname).

Reviewer: I see "kots" here again. I'm not an expert, but I wonder if "release manifests" would work here. I think replicated.app is used to pull the release, among other things. So I assume that's what "kots manifests" was trying to convey.

Author: @marccampbell  Can you verify whether I can change "kots manifests" to release manifests" or just "releases" here? We try to avoid using "kots" in the documentation unless we're referring to something that is specifically kots.

Author: @marccampbell Can you clarify what is meant here please?

You can add custom CNAMEs for the Replicated private registry and the proxy service in the vendor portal.

To add a custom CNAME:

1. Log in to the vendor portal, and click **Images**.
1. In the Custom CNAME Registry pane, on either the registry.replicated.com or proxy.replicated.com tabs, enable the **Use a custom hostname instead of registry.replicated.com** checkbox.
1. Enter the custom CNAME in the textbox.
1. Select either **Create a TXT record** or **Verify ownership via email**. Click **Save**.

1. For domain ownership verification, do one of the following, depending on which method of verification you enabled:
    - For TXT verification, copy the string from the domain ownership verification textbox and create a TXT record in your DNS account. Click **Validate and continue**.

    - For email verification, enter the email addresses to which you want the verification notification to be sent. Click **Validate and continue**.

1. From the TLS cert creation verification text box, copy the string and create a TXT record in your DNS account. **Click Validate and continue**.

Your changes can take up to 24 hours to propagate.

> ## Supported API Methods for CNAME

Reviewer: Maybe because it's an alpha feature it's different, but do we have precedent elsewhere for sharing about the API methods on a feature page instead of just on the API reference page? I haven't seen that in our docs, but I don't know for sure.

Author: We don't have a precedent. Paige and I talked about where to put this information and we temporarily agreed to put it here for now. This is because we don't have any API examples in our API reference section, so putting this information there could highlight the fact that the reference section is lacking. And it's not an immediate priority to build out the API reference section. We thought we'd move this information later when we're ready to tackle more API stuff. But, we're definitely open to suggestions! Happy to discuss.

> 1. From the TLS cert creation verification text box, copy the string and create a TXT record in your DNS account. **Click Validate and continue**.

Author: Thanks for catching that, we didn't record the demo.

```
{
  "registry.replicated.com": {
    "hostname": "registry.enterprise.vendor.com",
    "is_verified": true,
    "verification_type": "txt",
    "txt_record": {
      "name": "abcdef",
      "value": "txt_verification_abcdef"
    }
  },
  "proxy.replicated.com": null
}
```

### PUT /v3/app/:appId/registry/cname

This endpoint changes the CNAMEs for the application. It is a PUT request because all applications have these set, but they may be null. If the key is not provided, it will not be overwritten. Supported keys are `registry.replicated.com` and `proxy.replicated.com`.

Clear the configuration for a key by passing `null`.

**Example payload to set registry to a custom hostname using a TXT verification format:**

```
{
  "registry.replicated.com": {
    "hostname": "registry.enterprise.vendor.com",
    "verification_type": "txt",
  },
}
```

**Response:**

```
{
  "registry.replicated.com": {
    "hostname": "registry.enterprise.vendor.com",
    "is_verified": false,
    "verification_type": "txt",
    "txt_record": {
      "name": "abcdef",
      "value": "txt_verification_abcdef"
    }
  },
  "proxy.replicated.com": null
  }
  ```

> ## Customize CNAME with the Vendor API

Reviewer: Same idea as above
```suggestion
## Add Custom CNAME with the Vendor API
```

This procedure shows an example of:

> - Configuring a CNAME from registry.enterprise.myapp.com to use for registry.replicated.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configuring a CNAME record to point registry.enterprise.myapp.com to registry.replicated.com
```

- Replacing registry.replicated.com in your application with registry.enterprise.myapp.com
- Using a TXT record to validate domain ownership

To add a custom CNAMEs using the vendor API:

1. Generate a user token. See [Generate a User API Token in Using the Vendor API v3](//reference/vendor-api-using#generate-a-user-api-token).

1. Retrieve your application ID:

  ```
  curl –-header "Authorization: USER_TOKEN" https://api.replicated.com/vendor/v3/apps
  ```

  Replace `USER_TOKEN` with your user API token.

  Your application ID is returned as a numeric string.

1. Review your current CNAME configuration:

  ```
  curl –-header "Authorization: USER_TOKEN" https://api.replicated.com/vendor/v3/app/APP_ID/registry/cnames
  ```

>   Replace `APP_ID` with your application ID.

Author: @ajp-io That was intentional because it was mentioned above. Do you think that's confusing and should be repeated?

>   Replace `APP_ID` with your application ID.

Reviewer: No, I don't think it's confusing. When I started writing, I didn't realize you followed that pattern as you moved on in the doc, and I thought just this one was missing. I'll resolve this comment.

  ```

  :::note
  If you get a 403 Forbidden error, the token could be read-only or the account does not have the feature toggle enabled.
  :::

  **Response:**

  ```
  {
      "registry": {
          "hostname": "registry.enterprise.myapp.com",
          "is_active": false,
          "verification_type": "txt",
          "domain_verification_status": "pending",
          "txt_record": {
              "name": "_cf-custom-hostname.registry.enterprise.myapp.com",
              "value": "00b3b205-3bce-41fa-abfb-7852b438be80"
          },
          "tls_verification_type": "txt",
          "tls_verification_status": "initializing",
          "tls_txt_record": {
              "name": "",
              "value": ""
          }
      },
      "proxy": null
  }
  ```

  There is a 2-step verification process. This response shows `is_active: false`, meaning that the CNAME is not set up yet and that the `domain_verification_status` is pending.

1. Create the domain TXT record for the application using your DNS provider's instructions, and set the value to that shown in the previous step:

  ```
  "_cf-custom-hostname.registry.enterprise.myapp.com",

>               "value": "00b3b205-3bce-41fa-abfb-7852b438be80"

Author: @marccampbell  Can you clarify this part for us?

>               "value": "00b3b205-3bce-41fa-abfb-7852b438be80"

Author: @marccampbell  Can you clarify this part for us? Alex thinks it's not quite right.

>               "value": "00b3b205-3bce-41fa-abfb-7852b438be80"

Reviewer 3: This is correct, but just an example.  There will be a randomly generated value here for each user

  ```

1. To see the updated status, refresh the Replicated API by listing the values again:

  ```
  curl –-header "Authorization: USER_TOKEN" https://api.replicated.com/vendor/v3/app/APP_ID/registry/cnames
  ```

  **Response:**

  ```
  {
      "registry": {
          "hostname": "registry.enterprise.ttl.sh",
          "is_active": false,
          "verification_type": "",
          "domain_verification_status": "active",
          "txt_record": {
              "name": "",
              "value": ""
          },
          "tls_verification_type": "txt",
          "tls_verification_status": "pending_validation",
          "tls_txt_record": {
              "name": "registry.enterprise.myapp.com",
              "value": "ca3-0df423a5a51d42b994ed729c19df5002"
          }
      },
      "proxy": null
  }
  ```

  You can see that the domain verification status is active, but the TLS TXT record needs to be completed.

  :::note
  If your DNS is slow, the domain verification status can still show as pending. Wait a few minutes and then send the request again.
  :::

1. Create the TLS TXT record using your DNS provider's instructions, and run the GET request:

  ```

>   curl –-header "Authorization: 893d6552cc" https://api.replicated.com/vendor/v3/app/2A2MTUE9fj2n9gX2nT6o9yw6RLF/registry/cnames

Reviewer: `USER_TOKEN` and `APP_ID` should be variables here.
